Every 7 years the cells in the human
body undergo a transformation.
The older cells disintegrate
and do not retain their identity.
But those among them responsible for
the functions of the human body...
i.e. those which are intangible
but exist in the greater universe...
constitute the life force
of the human body.
Sometimes cancerous cells
may be found in the human body.
But those cells are anomalous
and independent entities.
These cells have a negative
effect on the life force.
And are repugnant to the body.
For the body, this could be...
What's wrong brother?
It's the same thing all over again.
Could you please handle it Satya?
Let me see...
Hari? Jagannath?
Hari?
Uncle...
- Yes?
Hari's daughter is very sick.
So I gave him the day off.
Oh.
Ok.
Could you please
get me a cup of tea?
Right away!
- Thank you.
Fani, you tell me...
do we ever disrespect Uncle?
He can be really rude sometimes.
Why do you take,
what he says, to heart, Sukumar?
You know how he is.
Don't sit here and sulk.
Go out and get some air.
There's a good film runnning at Chitra.
It's called 'Kapalkundala'.
I've wanted to watch
it for quite a while.
Yes, Makhan was telling me about it.
It has Uma Sashi and Durga Bannerjee.
Right?
I'm thinking about
catching the night show.
Please do go.
Oh yes... I have read your book.
Please do take it back.
Ok.
BYOMKESH_EP_02_SH_04
Uncle?
Mr. Byomkesh?
- Yes?
I always thought that your biographer Ajit
Bandhyopadhyay must be my old friend Ajit.
But I couldn't get myself to believe it.
Why don't you go?
- What?
What can they possibly do?
How can you underestimate the
deputy commissioner Bidhu Bhattacharya?
He has given strict orders not to allow me to talk to
anyone in the house until he has made a full investigation.
What did he say when
you called right now?
He has just left the police station. So we
can't do anything for at least 2 hours.
2 hours?
- Is this a new case?
Yes, sir.
A man has been murdered.
The commissioner himself has told
Byomkesh to investigate the matter.
But the deputy commissioner
doesn't like him much.
That is the matter of concern.
Please do have something
to eat before you leave.
Yes, of course.
There was something I had to say-
- Yes, tell me.
That is why I had asked
Ajit to invite you here.
I had a problem to discuss
but you seem to be very-
No, no. Please go ahead.
I still have a couple of hours to spare.
It may be a very frivolous matter...
but to me it is a puzzle
which is impossible to solve.
Puzzle?
Ok, tell me about it.
I am a personal physician for
a very wealthy household.
The head of the family
is Nanda Dulal Basu.
And he is my only patient.
- Ok.
He was so irresponsible
in his youth that...
once he grew a little older,
his body completely broke down.
He was afflicted by arthritis,
and partially paralysed.
And many more diseases
You know there's a saying in
medical science
that there's no wonder in death
Living is a wonder
Whenever I see the man
it reminds me of this fact
Baba (Father) Get lost
What do they understand...
These shithead editors?
Huh!
These people will honor my writings..
As if..
Baba..Please control yourself
Keep your mouth shut you miscreant
Get out from here
Baba..you are angry with the editors
Why are you venting it out on food?
(Laughs mockingly) The wife of a
miscreant is no lesser than him
Just disappear from my eyesight
Go away
Mohon
Is he an author?
Hmm..He thinks he is an unparalleled author
I see
Once I have read his scribbles
They are disgustingly filthy
After reading them, Even if you bathe
in the Ganges it wont pure your soul
Throughout the day he is scribbling
Once with red ink once with black
I get it
But what is the issue here..
Ever seen someone getting
intoxicated by tarantula juice?
What??
Tarantula juice?
Hmm
What is this Byomkesh?
Tarantula dance
Previously existed in Spain & caused an incontrollable
impulse to dance after bitten by a Tarantula
Terrific poison
The addiction is widespread amongst one of
South America's Spanish indigeneous tribe
Intaking a minimal amount of the poison causes
a certain excitement in your nervous system
But it's regular consumption
can lead to death by paralysis
This Nandadulal Babu is an addict.
The day I was assigned as their home
physician I stopped this practice
Listen Nandadulal Babu, you have to get
rid of this addiction if you want to live
Nonsense! A quack doctor like you
can't prevent me from doing it
I have seen many like you
I won't allow that poison
in this house anymore
Oh really? I'll take it again.
Let me see how you stop me
You know Mr. Byomkesh I have kept
his house under strict surveillance
To keep a check on him
Despite everything he is
still hooked to the drug
No one could figure from where he is
importing this Tarantula Toxin
The strange thing is one entire day
I was with him to keep an eye on him
He skipped my attention
thrice and took the poison
And I couldn't figure how!
Now my question is how is he procuring
the toxin And deceptively consuming it
And even if he's procuring it,
how is he intaking it
Mohanbabu, can I make a call?
Yes of course!
(Murmuring)
Hello, Byomkesh Bakshi speaking
Has Bidhubabu arrived?
Thank you, I am coming right now!
Ajit, pass me the cigarette packet
Byomkesh babu, I mean..
Yes, say
You're a busy man
Nothing like that, I have listened
to what you said I'm curious as well
But what to do I'm tied up for a while now
Actually if we get a solution
we might save his life
Hmm..you are right we could save his life
Alright, let's do something
Let Ajit accompany you
He'll look into the matter
I'll hear it from him and find a solution
Ajit?
Why are you worried?
This companionship has
made your childhood friend rather astute
very well, If you say so
Fine, then Ajit will only go
Listen Ajit, observe everything
carefully and inform me
Now let me rush and see what Bidhubabu
is cooking. Goodbye Mohanbabu!
Yes. Goodbye!
Ajit, find out about the letters
Nandadulal Babu receive.
Stand up properly.
You're playing smart with
Deputy Commissioner Bidhu Bhattacharya?
Tell me!
One whack and you'll say everything!
Tell me everything
Speak straight.
Budhhu Babu, I don't know anything!
Stop lying
I know what you are aware of..
I understand everything
You know everything. Now confess
Oh you are here..
Take a seat
It's a trivial matter
There was a murder last night I've
identified the suspect and issued a warrant
Even then if you have to ask anything...
What are you saying
When you, yourself is investigating the
case. What is left there for me to say...
I only wanted to understand the crux of the
matter.. and if you consider me as your assistant
Hmm
The patriarch of this house Karali Babu
was murdered last night
The execution is of an eccentric kind
Hence Saheb (Sir) is feeling dejected
But actually the case
is crystal clear to me
Crystal clear
So his nephew..What's his name?
Motilal
He killed his uncle and absconded.
If you kindly elucidate the case
Actually the size of my brain
is as much as your physique
Oh, haha! You're calling
yourself a thickheaded one!
Wait. Clarifying!
Hey you, recount properly when
did Motilal leave the house?
I didn't check the time.
Must be around 1 or 2
You've seen him around 1?
- Yes.
You've seen him around 2?
- Yes, Yes
Recall properly what time did you see him?
Seen him around 12!
Where were you at that time?
When did you come here?
Half an hour after Motibabu
left I closed the door and came here.
Sukumar Babu came just before that.
Came before that?
That means Sukumar Babu
returned before that.
Oh!
Fine. Now you go and come
if you're summoned. Go!
Just go. Get away from here.
If not fed properly I can't
interrogate with ease
Interrogation, in reality is an art
Have a seat.
What?
Sit.
Sit where?
Here, take a seat.
Now if you explain the matter.
What is left there to explain?
I have deciphered everything!
Deciphered everything?
Of course!
Still if you kindly explain it.
Okay then...
Actually the owner of
this house Karali Babu
He was a wealthy and affluent man..
He possesses three to four
lacs rupees in his account
Though he was a childless widower,
he fostered a few children
Like his three nephews...
Motilal, Makhonlal and Fani... Fanibhushan
Also, his sister-in-law's two
children Satyabati and Sukumar
So this Karali Babu had a dreadful temper
I mean a strangely weird and demented man
So all his tangible and intangible
assests... Hello, are you listening?
Oh yes!
Continue..
I was saying, he often kept changing the will
of all his tangible and intangible assests.
Suppose today someone is in his good books
he may chance to be his heir
And if ever he develop an aversion for him
he admonishes his name from the will
Now what happened..
Hello, so I was saying..
You were listening, right?
- Yes carry on
The last three wills
which were found from his cupboard
The first one for Makhonlal
The next on for..what Lal?
- Motilal
Yes, yes Motilal
The third one is for Sukumar
Therefore Sukumar is the last heir
This is Motilal's room
For the convenience of his night time
youthful exploits, he stays downstairs
Karali Babu's one of those nonindulgent men
No one was allowed to stay
outside home after 9pm
Karali Babu used to stay upstairs,
above this room. Come.
Everyday that girl Satyabati
used to get tea and wake him up.
This morning when Karali Babu didn't
respond she found out he is dead.
And after that..come inside.
It's a very interesting matter
Where medulla and the first
vertebrae colligate...
Motilal pierced a needle and murdered him
Very strange indeed.
- Haha!
Nobody could figure until I found it out
Yes, definitely.
Did you get any information
about Motilal's whereabouts?
Just nothing!
Barely studied after third
standard..an absolute lumpen
He is an expert at wasting his
uncle's money and jiving around.
When did Motilal meet Karali
Babu for the last time?
Yesterday morning.
The will was probated for Motilal only
Karali Babu changed it to Sukumar's name.
This lead to a feud between the uncle
and nephew and a motive for the murder
Motilal leaves the house
after murdering him.
The cook is a witness to this.
It's water-clear.
The cup is half filled but
the saucer is full. Why?
I told you just now.
- I heard it, but why?
This is a problem with
avocational detectives like you.
You don't have much to do
at the moment isn't it?
I think you've noticed there are three
needle marks in Karali Babu's neck.
Didn't I tell you it's difficult to find the
exact junction of medulla and vertebrae
For that, you have to pierce the needle
quite a few times to hit the spot.
I beg your pardon. Can you
show me the needle once?
If that's not an issue
Oh, yes sure!
Thank you!
Strange!
- Why? What is strange?
The needle is threaded with a yarn.
Why do find it so strange, isn't is
how it is supposed to be? Strange!!
Of course, that's how it is
A needle is created for the yarn.
Bidhubabu, how did Makhonlal seem to you?
Makhonlal is a little lesser
in comparison to Motilal
He indulges in occasional intoxication
but isn't as meritless as his brother
What about Sukumar?
Sukumar? Sukumar is a very impressive chap,
a medical student in his 5th year.
Sukumar returned late last night, isn't it?
Here's the proof of my Bioscope visit.
Give it to me.
Karali babu didn't approve of
staying out till late at night.
Despite that what is the reason
that you went for a night show?
Reason..umm So you are the heir
to Karali Babu's entire property?
Yes.
- That's a great deal of money, isnt it?
When was the last time you met Karali Babu?
Uncle, spare me from this burden of shame.
That means you don't want my inheritance?
It would be inaccurate if I say no
But I don't want it all by myself
Why don't you equally distribute
your property amongst all of us.
I see, so this boy is trying to
be the flagbearer of equality..
How dare you contradict me?
Uncle, I didn't mean to
disrespect your decision...
But how can I deprive
everyone else from it...
Out! Get out from here!!
I am not going to give you a single penny!
You rascal..belial..get
lost from here, get out!
Are you suspecting Sukumar
to be the muderer?
Sukumar? How's it possible?
You said Motilal is the murderer.
Yes.
- So?
This is Satyabati's room, right?
- Yes
But why trouble a woman? I have
already taken her deposition.
Oh, you've taken an account. Alright then.
Still let's visit once.
Listen, we want to...
Don't mind us bothering you for a while.
After this accident this police interrogation
must feel like rubbing salt on your wounds.
Listen, unnecessarily don't defame
the Police, you're not one of us!
I'm only going to ask a couple of questions
For Karali Babu, every morning you
used to... Pardon me, may I sit?
Hmm
- Thank you!
You used to make tea and wake
Karali Babu up everyday, isnt it?
Today was no different...
only that you found him dead
You didn't know anything before that?
- What silly questions!
Karali Babu's room's door
remained open all the time?
No one was allowed to lock
their doors while sleeping.
Uncle used to do the same.
Then...
Enough is enough, you don't
even know how to cross check!
Listen Bidhu Babu, if you constantly interrupt me I'll
file a legal complaint against you to the commisioner.
You don't want it, do you?
You really didn't know anything
about it before, give it a thought!
Given it a thought. I didn't know anything!
Okay, how many spoons of sugar
Karali babu used to take?
Sugar?
- Sugar.
Uncle used to take quite an extra amount of sugar
with tea... around three to four tablespoons.
My goodness, three to four tablespoons!
So why didn't you add
sugar in his tea today?
Actually... Actually... I am not feeling
well today... Maybe that is why...
Where is the needle?
Needle?
Yes, needle. You use it for sewing right?
And I can't find the thimble as well.
It would have been beneficial for you all
if you could open up.
I'll take a leave.
You know what Bidhubabu, I'm yet to learn
the art of patience from you.
Whatever it is, a senior like me..
- How's this Fanibhushan chap?
Who?
- Fanibhushan.
Fanibhushan is a cripple.
And although the saying goes that 'a
crippled body hosts a crippled mind'...
but if compared to the other
3 brothers he seems more humane.
Humane?
Let's find out.
Where?
- To Fanibhushan's room.
Nomoshkar (Greetings) sit, sit.
- Yes
Byomkesh babu, my brother might be
short-tempered but he is not a murderer.
I don't believe he has done this.
You don't think even losing out on the inheritance
could make him do this out of aversion?
In that case all three of us have that
excuse. Why only doubt Dada (elder brother)?
Right, absolutely right.
How's your equation with Karali Babu?
I am a cripple, useless. Probably
that is why he sympathized with me.
If Uncle didn't give me shelter,
maybe I would have starved to death.
I guess you're aware that according to Karali Babu's
last will Sukumar is the heir to his property.
Of course, Sukumar is the most
suitable one. - Most suitable one.
In that case, have you decided
what you are going to do?
If Sukumar permits, then I'll stay here.
Or else...
Fani, dada has been arrested.
So you are Makhon?
- And you?
Don't worry, I am not a policeman,
just a mere truthseeker (Satyanweshi).
Satyanweshi Byomkesh Bakshi?
I don't know anything.
Believe me I don't know anything.
Believe me, sir I don't know anything.
For god's sake, I don't know anything
Please let me go!
Bastard. You're trying to fool Bidhu
Bhattacharya? Confess everything! Confess!
Believe me, believe me Buddhu Babu.
- It's not Buddhu Babu, it's Bidhu Babu.
Yes, yes. I am an alcoholic imbecile.
It's only wine and women that concerns me.
I was with Dalim last night, she's
a witness. I don't know anything!
From where is he arrested?
- A concubine's home, near Jorasanko.
The entire city is under the surveillance of Bidhu
Bhattacharya. Not a single fly can escape it.
Well, it's late you may go home now!
Shall get him confessed after
a good thrash! Hey, get him.
Come!
Please leave me, I know nothing.
What are you writing, Ajit?
Anandabazar is publishing a
literary magazine called Desh
And calling for new writers,
penning a piece for it.
But what I have read in the morning
It's difficult to render
something worthy after that.
Had the French naturalist
Émile Zola read that
He would have been equally disgusted
What exactly did you read?
Don't you remember whom did
I visit in the morning?
Umm..morning..
Oh, that tarantula toxin.
I almost forgot.
Alright, so tell me what
did you see in that house?
Listen then, I reached that house...
Whom have you brought, doctor?
Tell him to leave.
Again you've taken it today?
It's my choice. It's nobody's business!
God knows from where
he's getting the poison
Neither could we figure when he's taking it
Listen, this poison is
affecting your health
It's damaging your brain.
But your brain works absolutely fine,
Why can't you find out?
Also kept my house under surveillance.
Even they are unable to find it out.
Nincompoops! Can't find out... Hahaha!
Nomoshkar, Nandadulal Babu!
Shut up! There is no need for all these.
Beside you both there is no one
who goes into his room, isn't it?
No
Does he receive any letters?
Yes, once a week there is a
registry mail, from Kolkata.
A lady named Rebecca Lite sends them.
Only blank papers and nothing else.
Does your father, Nandadulal
Babu, write to anyone?
No.
But he sends a money order of 100 rupees
to Rebecca Lite every month.
How does the thing enter his house...
And how does Nandadulal babu take it...
What is the purpose of the
blank registered paper?
And what is the reason
behind sending her money?
Give it a thought, Ajit.
I have thought about all these, a lot of
times. Nothing is getting in my head.
Let's hear about your current case!
Do you think Motilal is the culprit?
Then who?
Who?
Keeping Motilal aside, there remains
Fani, Makhon, Sukumar and Satyabati...
Everyone has equal motives.
Satyabati too?
- Why not?
But what can be her motive?
According to Karali's last will her brother
is the sole proprietor of his assets.
The one who changes his
will so frequently...
If he's murdered there won't be
any such further possibilities
Hence, Satyabati too can't be
waived off the suspect list, Ajit.
So Byomkesh
You're suggesting that it
is chloroform marks in Karali Babu's nose?
Can't disclose this to Buddhu Babu
He thinks it is phlegm mark.
The murder took place at 12am...
How can you say it so convincingly?
Conjecture...
But what I can't decipher is...
Why did the murderer
kept the needle pierced?
Had he taken it out there
would have been no evidence!
Few significant portions is marked in red
from Grey's Anatomy in Sukumar's room
But where is that pencil?
What was written in those
marked portions from the book?
If a needle is pierced right at the
junction of Medulla and First Vertebrae...
it'll cause instant death.
The cook and the servant are
the sole witness to the will
Yes, these two. Give.
Bidhubabu, we could have looked
for the rest of the rooms..
What's the need? I have done
it all and found the culprit
Why get involved in all
these unnecessarily?
Makes sense!
- Hmm
I'll leave then.
- Where?
I'll go home only...
but before that if I could drop by the
commissioner's office once...
Needed to report to him.
So Byomkesh Babu
- Yes, tell me?
I was saying which rooms
needed to be searched?
Come, I'll tell you.
With reference to, today,
22nd September 1933
I declare this will being
in sound senses...
after my demise all my tangible
and intangible assests...
and other relevant properties...
will be inherited by my youngest
niece Shri Fanibhushan...
Hence, from today, all my
previous will becomes invalid.
Undersigned, Shri Karalicharan Basu.
Oh boy! You wanted to obliterate
this will, didn't you?
Sir, this bottle of chloroform
has been found as well.
What?
- Yes, sir
The marks which were there
in Karali Babu's nose...
those were chloroform marks.
Byomkesh Babu was saying this.
- Shut up!
Byomkesh babu were saying?
He's a young chap. What does he know?
I said it, what?
- Yes, yes.
Here take it!
What does that metal cap called
which protects the finger while sewing?
Thimble?
Thimble, thimble. Has it been found?
No sir, that has is not found.
Not found?
- No sir.
Who knows how much till
will it take to find it.
Anyway, go and put him behind the bars.
Sir.
Bring him.
You've set Motilal free finally?
Bidhubabu has gotten into senses.
Apart from Sukumar's had anyone else's
room been searched?
No. Why?
To Bidhubabu nothing seems necessary.
Inspite of having overwhelming evidences
against Sukumar, the investigation must go on.
Until that red pencil and
the thimble are found...
It isn't advisable to
cease the investigation
Have you got the medical reports?
What is the time of death?
3 hours after dinner which
means around 12, isnt it?
Alright, thank you. I'll be there tomorrow.
Byomkesh, that means
Sukumar is the murderer.
See, Ajit...
It seems like someone is
trying to make it obvious...
That Karali Babu has
been murdered by a doctor..
This kind of murder is impossible
without the knowledge of anatomy.
The needle which was used was stolen from
his sister's sewing box
In fact the thread is exactly the same.
And Sukumar confessed that..
That he had a tiff with
Karali babu that night.
For him it was apparent that Karali Babu
would have changed his will again
The motive behind the murder is clear.
Then where is the doubt?
Everything is being laid out in front
of our eyes very clearly, Ajit...
That is where the doubt remains.
Byomkesh babu, please save my brother...
My brother is innocent...
He doesn't know anything...
without offence...
But all evidences are against him...
All lies...
He can't murder anyone for property...
We don't need any property,
Byomkesh Babu...
Please save my brother from this trouble...
My brother didn't commit
any crime, trust me!
I need to know everything
before I trust you.
But I haven't hidden anything.
You have, you have
undoubtedly hidden facts.
That very night you got to know about
Karali babu's death but didn't tell me.
Are you going to say it now?
When I went to Uncle's room...
There was a smell...
not very strong rather a sweet one...
Can't really define the smell.
Hmm.. chloroform
After that?
The next morning some how
I made tea and went to Uncle's room...
Oh traveler have you lost your way?
What exactly happened?
I mean did the sleuth
just become solicitous?
Insinuating me, Ajit?
Looking for a path only.
By the way, in every era it is Kapalkundala
who redirects the lost Nabakumar
Kapalkundala?
You know Byomkesh...
I have found a solution
to the Tarantula case...
Let your Tarantula poison
be at it's place...
Cut those crap!
Let's go and watch
Kapalkundala bioscope tonight.
What happened to you suddenly?
- Why?
You've become strangely hysterical
Let me check if you have fever...
You're aware that I'm a moonstruck guy...
When Bhattacharya Babu made my Natal Chart
and said that I'll be lunatic.
Let's go Ajit, hurry up!
Hey Putiram, eat your dinner and go
off to sleep... We'll eat outside.
Come fast, lets go... hurry up!!
Byomkesh, I really enjoyed the bioscope.
Listen Ajit, what solution did you
find abot the Tarantula case?
Oh, I think I have found a solution.
Oh really? Tell me then...
Inside Nandadulal babu's room, in corners,
right to left I have noticed spiders...
When there is no one at
home, in that room...
he takes those spiders and
suck their juice to get the toxin.
Ajit, do one thing tomorrow...
Whatever little dust is
there in your shoes...
collect and wrap it up in a paper,
Then give it to me without fail.
But why?
- I'll worship it every morning
Why are you laughing like a lunatic?
Ajit, is the color of
Nandadulal babu's tongue red?
Why?
Find out.
There lies the actual
solution of this mystery.
Byomkesh babu, this Sukumar
is the real culprit...
I knew this from the very beginning
Really?
- Yes, didn't let anyone understand!
Was toying with him a bit.
- Impressive!
What?
- Was looking for your toying equipment!
Ajit.
Bidhubabu, look what a strange thing!
Hush!!
Bidhubabu, keep him in your custody
for a while. Ajit come with me.
Wait.
Bidhubabu, till then keep
this man toying for a while.
Uncle lost his life only for some money!
As the saying goes, money
is the root of all evil.
No, Byomkesh Babu this heirship
doesn't make me happy.
This one is a physiology book.
Must be Sukumar Babu's.
Sometimes Sukumar used to lend
me his physiology books to read.
I used to consider him the
closest in this house.
But who knows what goes
inside one's mind...
It's difficult to discern that.
Fanibabu, you seem to
be a diligent bookworm.
Yes, that is how I'm sustaining
So Byomkesh Babu...
do you really think Sukumar
is the one to be blamed?
The evidences are redirecting the
clouds of doubt towards him.
Do I explain it to you?
One thing is clear from this...
The culprit...
is naive and clever at the same time...
He executed the murder in
an extremely clever way
But he had kept all the evidences
in his room like a fool.
As if Sukumar had to use Satyabati's
needle for the murder...
and hide the will in his room...
He could have just tore it off...
What do you understand from this?
- What?
You understand this that...
the criminal is not a fool
but a very clever one...
and intelligent...
But Fanibabu, even a watchful man
can flounder, like in this case...
What?
Let me explain...
What mistake?
But before that...
give me a pencil I'd like
to make a blueprint...
Ajit, kindly see if you
get a paper anywhere...
Yes, give me a pencil.
- Here you go.
Yes, give it to me.
Got anything?
Let it be, you may sit.
Okay, a blueprint isn't required
anymore, let me say it...
In this case the culprit
made three mistakes...
Firstly...
In the Grey's Anatomy book...
he had marked a particular
portion with a red pencil...
Secondly, he doesn't know about
the jurisdiction in good order...
Doesn't know about legalities properly?
No, doesn't know properly at all...
Hence the crime he
committed went in vain...
absolutely futile... Fanibabu.
What?
Ajit..Ajit..Ajit...
What do you mean to suggest?
Take a look at this will...
This was discovered from
Sukuma Babu's room...
The will is invalid legally,
it doesn't have a signature of a witness..
No authorized witness signatory?
What are you saying?
Wait I'll make it clearer...
No, no, no wait..
- Let me explain, just listen
Listen carefully...
You had instructed Makhon to get the
bottel of chloroform beforehand...
That evening when Sukumar had
a fight with Karali Babu...
You had a doubt...
That Karali Babu might
change his will again...
And this time it was going be your turn...
And it was as you expected...
But you wanted to ensure Karali Babu
doesn't get to change his will...
So it was necessary to remove him
from being an obstacle..
But due to your lack of prowess...
you had to pierce the needle thrice
to hit the exact place.
A medical student like Sukumar
would have done it at one go.
If you would have kept the
will at its right place...
you couldn't have framed Sukumar...
At the same time you must frame
another to save yourself...
So you hid the will and the bottle
of chloroform in Sukumar's room...
You were aware that each room will be
ransacked after this incident...
Then the Will would be found too...
You planned to kill two
birds with one stone...
Firstly, Sukumar would be hanged and on the
other hand you would inherit the property...
Isn't it so?
Have you thrown the thimble away?
Give me some time Byomkesh Babu...
I'm not feeling very well...
Get ready.
(weeping) - You're not paying
attention, I'm asking you something...
What is he saying?
Who asked you to get the chloroform?
Tell me now!
Fani asked me to...
Fani?
He couldn't sleep at night,
one drop of chloroform would help so...
You think this is some kind of joke?
Chloroform is no sleeping pill...
Bidhubabu, let him go..
Byomkesh Babu...
What exactly do you mean to suggest?
Once you're saying to take him in custody,
again you're saying to let him go...
Never meant to take him in custody,
just asked you to play with him...
What is the matter...
Listen Byomkesh Babu...
Just because you are in good
terms with the commissioner...
You can't always...
Mock and joke with me and get by...
Tell me honestly,
who is the actual murderer of Karali Babu?
Byomkesh Babu, I'll take your leave then...
I'm an useless cripple...
No one will help me sustain here...
I didn't get the money, hence
find no reason to be alive...
Uncle didn't love me...
Instead ridiculed me for being a cripple...
Therefore I have no guilt
for murdering him...
But I feel apologetic to Sukumar...
Apart from him, I couldn't
have framed another...
Also, if Sukumar was hanged...
It would have been beneficial
for me in another way...
But the embarrassment of being a cripple...
restrained me from
expressing it to anyone.
I'll not express it today as well...
I had stolen the thimble and the
needle from Satyabati's room...
No one could have gotten
me caught except you...
But I still couldn't detest you...
Farewell.
So Byomkesh...
Where do you go everyday all decked up,
that too at the same time...
Any new case?
Hmm but a rather secret one...
Your new client seems epicurean...
Chosen a detective wearing Nehru
Coat (Waist coat), Panjabi...
Oops! Truth seeker...
Seeking the truth isn't
an easy task, Ajit...
You need to be well prepared for that.
Well, you have been seeking the
truth for quite a while...
Never seen you in this attire...
It's a different kind of truth, Ajit...
A bachelor like you won't
be able to figure it out.
You're right actually...
Hey! But you didn't give me a
solution for the Tarantula mystery...
Did you find out the color
of Nandadula Babu's tongue?
Red.
That is it, it is solved.
What is solved?
Ajit, you still couldn't understand?
Okay, listen...
You ask Mohan Babu or Arun Babu...
To get rid of the red ink pot and the fountain
pen from his room, that will be enough.
The red ink pot contains
the Tarantula toxin...
But who is getting it from outside?
Think harder, you'll understand.
The peon?
And why the money order?
Oh Ajit, use your brain...
To pay for the substance.
That's like it, you've
understood everything...
Listen Ajit, let me tell
you something important...
For the next few days...
I'll be extremely busy regarding
a very important case...
To seek a truth...
In the meantime if any new case arises...
I'd expect you to resolve it yourself...
Goodbye then.
What do you mean?
The meaning is really profound, Mr.
Banerjee...
Bye.
Do you...
Do you like mystery?
What?
If you have to spend the
rest of your life...
amidst murderers, frauds and imposters...
on account of your partner...
how inconvenient that would be for you?
I am not getting what you are saying...
In these crucial moments I
can't remember a poem...
Oh yes, have you heard this poem...
An ever floating wind impeded the path...
No No No..wait a minute...
Yes...
Unrestrained affiliations
impeded the path...
We are travellers of the buoyant breeze...
But why are you mentioning The
Last Poem all of a sudden?
Umm..why The Last Poem?
For a beginning...
I mean to say... can I umm to you...
Umm as in?
Umm as in marriage...
Do you wish to marry me?
You're getting what I mean to say, right?